## Kubectl Config file

Below format is how a standard kubectl config looks like.

This is basically a combination of 3 things: `clusters`, `users` and `contexts`
<br/>.
`context` is combination of `user` and `cluster`.

<details> <summary> Config file format </summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
current-context: user-1-cluster-1
clusters:
- name: cluster-1
  cluster:
    certificate-authority-data: <certificate in bytes>
    server: <url of the server>
- name: cluster-2
  cluster:
    certificate-authority: <path to certificate>
    server: certificate-authority
users:
- name: user-1
  user:
    client-certificate: <path to client certificate>
    client-key: <path to client key>
contexts:
- name: user-1-cluster-1
  context:
    cluster: cluster-1
    user: user-1
    namespace: default
- name: user-1-cluster-2
  context:
    cluster: cluster-2
    user: user-1
    namespace: my-namespace
```

</details>

In the above file we infer below details:

1. `clusters` section comprises array of clusters that kubectl can have access to. Each individual cluster has a name and cluster information associated with it. Cluster infromation is generally consisting of 2 things either `certificate-authority-data` or `certificate-authority` and `server`. The difference between `certificate-authority-data` or `certificate-authority` is just that `certificate-authority-data` is the certificate in bytes where as `certificate-authority` is path to that certificate.

2. `users` section comprises of array of users that kubectl can have access to. Each individual user has a name and user information associated with it. User information generally consists of `client-certificate` and `client-key`.

3. `contexts` section comprises of array of contexts that kubectl can have access to. Each individual context is a combination of one of the clusters and one of the users.

<details> <summary> Config commands </summary>

1. To view config file in yaml: `kubectl config view`
2. To view config file in json: `kubectl config view -o json`
3. To get clusters: `kubectl config get-clusters`
4. To get contexts: `kubectl config get-contexts`
5. To get users: `kubectl config get-users`
6. To get current context: `kubectl config current-context`
7. To set namespace of current context: `kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<name of namespace>`
8. To switch current context: `kubectl config use-context <name of context>`
9. Create a new context: `kubectl config set-context --cluster=<cluster-name> --user=<user-name> --namespace=<namespace-name>`

</details>

