## Security Primitives

### Secure hosts

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. Password based authentication disabled.
2. SSH key based authentication allowed.

</details>

### Secure K8s cluster

<details> <summary> show </summary>

Controlling access to the kube-apiserver (via api-call or kubectl)
Who can access? - authentication
What can they do? - authorization
1. Authentication via - 
    - Files (username & password)
    - Files (username & tokens)
    - Certificates
    - External Authentication Providers like LDAP
    - Service Accounts
2. Authorization via
    - RBAC (role based)
    - ABAC (attribute based)
    - Node
    - Webhook
3. All communication between components are secured using TLS encryption.
4. Network policies are used to restrict communication between pods in a cluster.
5. Roles:
    - Admins
    - Developers
    - End Users - on application level
    - Bots - service accounts
    Hence types:
    - Users - Admin, Developers
    - Bots
6. Static password file
    - user details csv file -> password,user-name,user-id
    - key name while starting kube-apiserver or command in YAML file -> --basic-auth-file=<file-path>
    - api requests to kube-apiserver -> `curl .... -u "user-name:passsword"`
7. Static tokens file
    - user details csv file -> token,user-name,user-id
    - key name while starting kube-apiserver or command in YAML file -> --token-auth-file=<file-path>
    - api requests to kube-apiserver -> `curl .... --header "Authorization:Bearer <token>"`
8. Follow below steps to setup file based auth (via volume mounts)
    - create a `user-details.csv` file -> format `<password>,<user-name>,<user-id>`
    - edit `kube-apiserver.yaml` file at `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`
    - mount the volumes -> `hostPath` type and also pod mount type should be read-only
    - modify the kube-apiserver startup options to include the basic-auth file -> spec/containers/command -> --basic-auth-file=<mount-path-location>
    - create necessary role and rolebindings for users/groups

</details>

### Kube config

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. Create certs: client cert and key + ca cert
2. Use them in api requests to `kube-apiserver` -> --key, --cert, --cacert
3. Use the in kubectl commands -> --server, --client-key, --client-certificate, --certificate-authority
4. Move above configuration to `kube config` and specify in '--kubeconfig'
5. By default kubectl uses config at `$HOME/.kube/config`
6. Kube config format: 
    - apiVersion: v1 
    - kind: Config
    - current-context
    - clusters 
        - name
        - cluster
            - server
            - certificate-authority / certificate-authority-data
    - users
        - name
        - user
            - client-key
            - client-certificate
    - contexts
        - name
        - context
            - cluster
            - user
            - namespace

</details>

### API Groups

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. Access kube-apiserver - via REST or via kubectl
2. kube-api are basically 2 types - /api [core] & /apis [named]
3. core is for all main resource types like Pods, Deployments, ReplicaSets, Volumes, NetworkPools, etc.
4. named too are for all main resource types but they are segregated/organised in a better way. Like apps, networking.k8s.io, storage.k8s.io, etc and all the core resources are again versioned and fall under their own api groups.

</details>

### API Versions & Deprecations

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. v1alpha1 --> v1beta1 --> v1 (GA/stable)
2. v1alpha1 --> No enabled by default, may have bugs --> for expert testers and feedback
3. v1beta1 --> Enabled, minor bugs 
4. v1 --> stable and generally available
5. preferredVersion --> if multiple version enabled for a resource, which one is to be used by kubectl command
6. storageVersion --> figure out by querying etcd
7. enable alpha version via flag --> --runtime-config=<resource/alphagroup>,<>...
8. Deprecation rules
  - API elements can only be removed by incrementing the version of the API group
  - API objects must be able to round trip b/w API versions in a given release w/o info loss. Except if whole resource do not exist in some versions
  - GA - 12 months/3 releases; beta - 9 months/3 releases; alpha - 0 releases
  - preferred/storage version for any group may not advance until after a relase has been made that supports both new and previous versions
  - API version cannot be deprecated until as stable version is released
  - kubectl convert -f <old-file> --output-version <new-api> (install special pluging for convert)

</details>

### Authorization

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. Node - kubelet part of `system.nodes` group - makes all requests to kube-apiserver contains the `node` certificate details.
2. ABAC - each user is associated with certain attributes that allows them to access/modify certain resources. For each user a separate `policy` file is created and it becomes difficult to manage.
3. RBAC - create roles with certain access/modify permissions and associate users to that role via rolebindings. This makes easier to manage access.
4. Webhook - when you would like to outsource authorization rather than default K8s mechanisms. Like `Open Policy Agent`.
5. AlwaysAllow / AlwaysDeny
6. --authorization-mode key in kube-apiserver. By default 'alwaysallow'.
7. If multiple modes are specified, requests are processed through each mode in sequence.

</details>

### RBAC

<details> <summary> show </summary>

1. Role object:
    - rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1 -> apiVersion
    - Role -> kind
    - metadata
        - namespace - default
        - name - developer
    - rules
        - apiGroups - string array
        - resources - string array
        - verbs - string array
        - resourceNames - string array - not mandatory - more granularity

2. Role binding object:
    - rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1 -> apiVersion
    - RoleBinding -> kind
    - metadata
        - namespace - default
        - name - developer-devuser-binding
    - subjects
        - kind - User
        - name - dev-user
        - apiGroup - rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    - roleRef
        - kind - Role
        - name - developer
        - apiGroup - rbac.authorization.k8s.io
3. Check access
    - kubectl auth can-i create deployments
    - kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user
    - kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user -n default
 

===
Inspect the environment and identify the authorization modes configured on the cluster.
Check the kube-apiserver settings
===

```bash
kubectl describe po kube-apiserver-controlplane -n kube-system | grep authorization-mode # --authorization-mode=Node,RBAC
```

===
How many roles exist in the default namespace?
===

```bash
kubectl get roles # No resources found in default namespace.
```

===
How many roles exist in all namespaces together?
===

```bash
kubectl get roles -A | wc -l # 13 --> hence 12 as first line would be header
```

===
What are the resources the kube-proxy role in the kube-system namespace is given access to?
and
What actions can the kube-proxy role perform on configmaps?
===

```bash
kubectl describe role kube-proxy -n kube-system

<<com
Name:         kube-proxy
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
PolicyRule:
  Resources   Non-Resource URLs  Resource Names  Verbs
  ---------   -----------------  --------------  -----
  configmaps  []                 [kube-proxy]    [get]
com
```

===
Which account is the kube-proxy role assigned to?
===

```bash
kubectl get rolebindings -A | grep Role/kube-proxy

kubectl describe rolebindings kube-proxy -n kube-system
<<com
Name:         kube-proxy
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
Role:
  Kind:  Role
  Name:  kube-proxy
Subjects:
  Kind   Name                                             Namespace
  ----   ----                                             ---------
  Group  system:bootstrappers:kubeadm:default-node-token  
com
```

===
A user dev-user is created. User's details have been added to the kubeconfig file. Inspect the permissions granted to the user. Check if the user can list pods in the default namespace.
===

```bash
kubectl auth can-i list pods --as dev-user # no
```


===
Create the necessary roles and role bindings required for the dev-user to create, list and delete pods in the default namespace.
===

Role: developer

Role Resources: pods

Role Actions: list

Role Actions: create

Role Actions: delete

RoleBinding: dev-user-binding

RoleBinding: Bound to dev-user

```bash
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: developer
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["pods"]
  verbs: ["list", "create", "delete"]

---

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: dev-user-binding
  namespace: default
subjects:
- kind: User
  name: dev-user
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: developer
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

===
A set of new roles and role-bindings are created in the blue namespace for the dev-user. However, the dev-user is unable to get details of the dark-blue-app pod in the blue namespace. Investigate and fix the issue.
===

```bash
kubectl get role developer -n blue -o yaml > role-blue.yaml
nano role-blue.yaml

<<com
resourceNames:
    - dark-blue-app <<-- add this
com

kubectl apply -f role-blue.yaml
```

===
Add a new rule in the existing role developer to grant the dev-user permissions to create deployments in the blue namespace.
===

```bash
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-04-26T03:12:35Z"
  name: developer
  namespace: blue
  resourceVersion: "1016"
  uid: bd5b5b6c-167b-4f8d-8d62-3bebd5f366ae
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resourceNames:
  - blue-app
  - dark-blue-app
  resources:
  - pods
  - deployments
  verbs:
  - get
  - watch
  - create
  - delete
```

</details>

