## Docker vs Containerd

With older versions of kuberentes `Docker` is a significantly used terminology but with newer versions of kubernetes `conatinerd` takes its place.

Docker was a predominantly used tool to work with containers. Because of its ease of use it dominated the segment where other tools like rocket(rkt), crio existed.

Kubernetes was specifically built to manage docker. So kuberenetes and docker were tightly coupled.

As the popularity of kubernetes grew, other conatiner managers wanted in.

Hence kubernetes built something called `Container Runtime Interface`. Using this any tool that complies with OCI standards can integrate with kubernetes.

OCI standards define ImageSpec and RuntimeSpec.
- ImageSpec - standardizes how image should be built.
- RuntimeSpec - specifies how any container runtime should be developed.

So tools like `Rocket(rkt)` which were OCI compliant were able to integrate with kubernetes.

But docker continued to be the dominant and since they were not OCI compliant, kubernetes had to come up with `Dockershim` component, an hacky way that bypasses `Container Runtime Interface` just to support docker.

Docker itself is not a runtime. It has various components and features:
- CLI
- API
- Build
- Volumes
- Auth
- Security
- containerd -> this is the runtime

So not only does kubernetes has to manage an additional component `Dockershim` for docker but also support other features of docker for parity sake.
Which became too much to manage.

Moreover conatinerd (Docker's runtime component) obeyed OCI standards and was CRI compatible.

Hence with kubernetes release v1.24, kubernetes stopped supporting docker instead it supported all existing/new docker images via contained.

This gave rise to couple of command line tools:
- ctr -> to interact with conatinerd
- nerdctr -> since `ctr` did not have much features and people were habituated with docker. `nerdctr` became more popular beacause of its `docker` like command support.
- crictl -> this tool is to directly interact with kubernetes's CRI. Not specific to any container runtime. But a default runtime can be set. If not set it follows a sequence of dockershim -> conatinerd -> crio -> cri-dockerd. This tool is mostly helpful for debugging purposes.